Same leaf allows you to combine the view and the model.
Your model contains data, but the next step is to merge that data with the view, and that's what Fine
Leaf is for.
So in this lesson you will use thin leaf to combine the view and the model.
Let's go through the process right now.
Your view is a static HTML and your model contains an attribute that maps to a grade object.
A key value pair, if you will.
Somehow Leaf is going to magically merge the data from the model with visual elements in the view.
How will it do that?
The answer lies in variable expressions.
A variable expression executes on a model attribute in some way.
Repeating it one more time a variable expression executes on a model attributes.
A variable expression consists of a dollar sign followed by curly brackets inside the curly brackets.
The variable expression executes on a model attribute in some way.
In this case, the variable expression returns the model attribute age.
There are many ways that a variable expression can execute on a model attributes.
A variable expression can be used to return a model attribute or a value that derives from it.
It can execute a condition based on a model attributes.
A variable expression can also be used in a loop.
And it can also execute utility methods on a model attribute.
In this lesson, we're going to be looking at the first scenario.
Finally, text displays a text value.
This variable expression returns the score that derives from the model attribute grade.
Now, this value could be a string, could be a boolean, could be a number.
Finally, text doesn't care.
All time leaf text is going to do is display the result as a text value.
You should already have finally installed as a dependency.
The family of dependency is required to work with HTML templates.
So far your table only contains one row with a bunch of headers as is reflected in the UI.
Per the HTML cheat sheet, I'm going to add another row.
That contains three data cells.
So these are header cells.
We're going to create data cells.
I'll copy this two more times.
The first cell we're going to say, Harry.
The subject will be potions.
In the score is a C minus.
All right.
Now, thanks to Spring Boot Def Tools, our application should reflect the changes.
And it does.
And now your table has another row of data.
However, the data was written directly into the HTML.
So remove the hard coded data, but keep the cells as is.
And so inside the first cell, we're going to set a leaf text.
Equal to a variable expression.
And finally, if text is just going to display whatever the result is as a text, in this case, we
just want our variable expression to return the name field that derives from the model attribute grade.
We're going to copy this over here.
Here, we can display the subject.
And here we will display the score.
This is really important.
The variable expression invokes the getter of each field, so the naming needs to match.
So if I go back thanks to Spring Boot Def Tools, everything should rerun.
And voila.
Finally uses the model to populate the view with data.
Now, before I wrap up this lesson, let's just assume we did happen to misspell one of the fields.
What would happen is we would get a big error.
Now what's really important with these areas is to not get intimidated by them, because somewhere in
all of these logs, there is a very useful message that's going to tell you exactly where you went wrong.
So here it tells us an error happened during template parsing.
Okay, what is that error?
Let's scroll through and eventually you'll see that the parse exception occurred because it could not
find the subject field that it was trying to get from the model object.
The model object has a great dot subject field, so make sure to fix it accordingly.
All right.
And so to recap, you use dime leaf to populate the view with data from the model.
When a user makes a request, the controller maps the request to a handler method.
The handler method stores a great object inside the model.
Each cell in the table row displays a field value from the model object.
After merging the model variable, the controller presents your updated view.